Neal Sáles-Griffin: Good catch. Okay.
Lilliana Robinson: we're going to summarize the mattress interview together. So imagine that we just finished the interview. We were partners with Bob, master where his team. And now something that we haven't spoken about yet is very, very important. Maybe the most important part of the Jtb. Process, which is the debris.
Lilliana Robinson: So every time you do an interview it can be. It can range from 20 to 30 min in interview.
Lilliana Robinson: 10 to 15 min directly after that should always be booked out
Lilliana Robinson: for you and your companion. Whoever was helping you with the interview, or more team members, if you'd like like right now to discuss. And that is where you plot the forces and you plot the timeline.
Lilliana Robinson: We're gonna specifically talk about forces today because the timeline is a little bit more intuitive for plotting but when you guys go and do your interviews, we're going to require that in either the first or second interview you have one of our team members with you, Kate Ferona and Sophie are all going to be available, so they will do the de-group with you for that interview or more, if you'd like.
Lilliana Robinson: So today, we're going to do the debrief for the mattress interview
Lilliana Robinson: as if we just perform the interview, and we're talking about it now.
Lilliana Robinson: So
Lilliana Robinson: what that looks like is, you take a piece of paper hopefully. You can write. If you're on Zoom, we can just talk about it. Maybe someone could be a scribe on Google Docs. We're not going to write it down here. But if you were going to be doing it for real for your interview. That's what you would do. Always have the diagrams up so that you can be following along with what they each mean. It's hard to
Lilliana Robinson: kind of keep them in your mind if you don't see the arrows.
Lilliana Robinson: and we're just gonna go through each of the 4, so we'll start with push. Remember, push is the pain push is something pushing you toward the solution to make it better
Lilliana Robinson: it it doesn't have to be physical pain. It can just be something that is hurting in his life.
Lilliana Robinson: So with our main interviewee. Does anyone remember his name or the name that Bob gives him in the interview.
Tunde IO: hey? Some of us are bad names.
Nelson Mitchell: I don't remember them saying the name. But yeah, yeah, Neil knows it.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. So this is a fun story. Sorry I was getting set up over here, but
Neal Sáles-Griffin: quick side note
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I usually when Bob comes into Chico he come. He would come into Chicago from Detroit last year, when I was still living in Chicago, he came into town, and he ended up staying with me in my place, and
Neal Sáles-Griffin: he has a steak restaurant he likes to go to.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and I said, No, I'm gonna take you to my spot. So, by the way, if any of you all go to Chicago, let me know we could hook it up. That being said, I took him to my spot. So we're at my spot at this. Take spot.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and we're sitting there, and he looks over and he goes. Oh, my God! I can't believe it! And we see the person
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that he interviewed for the mattress interview, sitting across from us in the restaurant, and Bob hadn't seen him in like 6 or 7 years, so it was like the craziest thing last year for me to see literally the mattress interview Guy, that I've been teaching for 10 years
Neal Sáles-Griffin: across from me. And then he ended up joining us for dinner. So it was a whole like situation, and I loved it so. Just a fun little side story about it being even more real, but they were. They were in Chicago when the interview was done at at Base Camp.
Nelson Mitchell: Did he look well? Rested Neil. He he is in a he? He was like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: he. He looked great, and I just couldn't believe
Neal Sáles-Griffin: how effusive he was both towards Bob and in general he's actually in the startup community in Chicago. Now he's an entrepreneur. So I guess that's how you heard about the workshop. In the first place.
Tunde IO: that's awesome. II love that story.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay. So Brian is his name. So Brian was facing certain problems. Let's talk about it. You guys can just unmute or raise your hand if you're more comfortable. What are the pushes? The push forces that Brian was facing in his life
Mark Kirzhner (Cicada): was working very hard. and the
Mark Kirzhner (Cicada): he needed more and quality of sleep.
Mark Kirzhner (Cicada): Yeah, it was tired.
should not.
Arthur Fields: But again, Meg Baines
Lilliana Robinson: back pain. Okay, Mark says he's tired and he has back pain. Marcell. And then Arthur
Marisel Polanco: yes, aside from the physical pain, he just was cranky all the time. He didn't feel like he was a good dad or wasn't really using his time. He was just so Gracie
Lilliana Robinson: Umhm. So we had mood problems, emotional problems, family. He wasn't living up to like what he wanted to be for. His family are okay.
Arthur Fields: I mean, everyone has said everyone said exactly what I was gonna say, but essentially like, it sounds like to me. He was getting better sleep when he was on the road, and when he comes back home it was a combination of family, and then also that that mattress as well that was
Arthur Fields: compromising his balance of emotions.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. So the juxtaposition of he knows it's not like a sleeping problem, because he gets great sleep when he's not there. So that's like really important. The push was actually probably toward the matchers, only because he knew he gets good sleep elsewhere. That's a really good point. I haven't heard someone bring up that point before. Actually, I like that.
Lilliana Robinson: Nelson.
Nelson Mitchell: I'm curious if time counts as being a push, because, you know, he'd been thinking about the problem, for you know, anywhere from 6 to months to a year. And it was clearly annoying. And
Lilliana Robinson: yeah, that's interesting. Usually, time is a push when it's like the straw that breaks the camels back. It's like, alright. I've waited too long now, right? It's like
Lilliana Robinson: you've waited all this time, and it just gets worse and worse and worse, and that's what makes it the push. I totally agree.
Lilliana Robinson: Antonio.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: So he was aware that his mattress was deformed, and so he had to go through the pain of, you know. Try different positions like on the box, spring on the floor like he tried a lot of creative solution to make it better.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. So he tried doing a bunch of things and none of them work. So the frustration with that maybe like that was extra work and mental load. And it's like, I don't want to think about this anymore.
Lilliana Robinson: Totally agree. Let's see, Allie.
Ale - AWEAR: Oh, yeah, I think it. It was mentioned previously, but essentially it's generating tension in his life, like tension that leads to moments that are not related at all with sleep. But he's generating conflict like with the wife. And he mentioned the personal conflict. But he didn't mention if it was also affecting him at work, but could carry over.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. So social, I'm hearing a lot. Remember, there are functional problems, emotional problems, social problems
Lilliana Robinson: that I'm hearing. He also had social issues. So he's not getting along with his wife, his children, other people at work. Perhaps Matthew
Matthieu Bonnard: and I was thinking maybe he was frustrated. He bought this expensive $2,000 mattress from his ankle, his ankle, and was kind of almost forced to buy this, and thinking that
Matthieu Bonnard: it was maybe
Matthieu Bonnard: attracted to buying a cheaper mattress from postcode so anonymous supplier to offset the frustration of this expensive
Matthieu Bonnard: match was forced into him by his uncle.
Lilliana Robinson: That's exactly yeah. So. He has this budget version that he kind of got kind of tricked into. He's not super happy with it. So he's kind of angry about that
Lilliana Robinson: or frustrated with that. And then that is actually going to come into play with some of the other forces, too. So there are some other things lying in that uncle part.
Lilliana Robinson: Bob.
Bob Van Dell II: Yeah, I think a little bit of what Matthew just said, the buyers from more side, but also in combination with what somebody said about having to measure the dip in his mattress. He's not getting the support he needs from
Bob Van Dell II: the folks who sold it to him as well. So it's like. you know the worst of both worlds. He's got like a lemon of a mattress.
Lilliana Robinson: Exactly. Nelson. Did you have another?
Nelson Mitchell: Yeah. What was my other one? It's just there.
Lilliana Robinson: okay, feel free for it in the chat. So all of you are exactly right. So those are a bunch of pushes. Push was pretty much the easiest one for this, because we're dealing with something that is physical. So you can physically see, I saw. I think it was Bob also put in the chat, physical arm and back pain. Lisa, we're gonna come back to your comment in the chat. And in a second
Lilliana Robinson: so we have that physical pain that's more functional. We have the emotional pain. He's grouchy. He's not being a good dad. And then we have social. He's literally fighting with the people in his life and not getting along with them because of this
Lilliana Robinson: for the poll. Remember, pull is an attraction.
Lilliana Robinson: an allure to being a better person to something that you want. It's almost like, you see this. Share it in the distance that you're you're yearning for. Can anyone think of pulls toward having a new mattress
Lilliana Robinson: this new life. Yeah, Bob.
Bob Van Dell II: I mean, it's one of those
Bob Van Dell II: instinctive desires of like good sleep. There's nothing like hitting the the bed after like a long day of work, where you're actually tired, and looking forward to waking up well rested like. And then, you know, seeing the solution, you know, at at Costco, like you've
Bob Van Dell II: kind of project yourself into that reality, at least for a moment.
Lilliana Robinson: I completely agree. So the thought you even said, like looking forward to a good night's sleep that is so attractive. It's like II really am looking forward to getting into bed, and just like for it to feel great.
Lilliana Robinson: David.
David Akinyemi | TUX: Yeah. 2 polls that I remember was
David Akinyemi | TUX: the convenience of the the Groupon coupon for the mattress. And so, even when he was in this uncertainty. There was that like, Hey, I can always just tap a button and have it delivered as well as another poll, was the support he received from his wife, I think, in the store, and
David Akinyemi | TUX: when he actually was considering buying it so that pull of like, Hey, I kinda have alignment with the other person using this bet. Was another sense of pull for the new solution.
Lilliana Robinson: Absolutely right? So one, there was a coupon deal. That's a that's a poll. Okay, less money. That makes me very enticed by this. But the oh, huge poll was my wife has the go ahead on this. She was there with me.
Lilliana Robinson: That's her just being there and able to see it is already a poll. And then her giving the go ahead, and he had her full support is a humongous pull in this. In this story.
Lilliana Robinson: Antonio
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: so kind of to add to, you know, wanting to have a better sleep, he had the proof. Actually, when he traveled and was staying in hotels.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: the masters was confidently was having a really good sleep. So really the drive I want I want that. I know what it feels to have a good sleep. And I want that.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, I love the way you frame that. So that's kind of going along with Bond, where it's like. Not only do I just want a good night of sleep. I know what it feels like, and I'm chasing getting back to that. It's kind of like if we've ever hit like flow in productivity. We're kind of like chasing that every time that we're not in that at work.
Lilliana Robinson: Kevin?
Kevin: Yeah. His poll. One of the main polls, I felt, was his, the guarantee policy that actually Costco has with the returns.
Kevin: He was very worried that if you were to purchase with a group on the mattress online the hassle that it was going to be to actually get the mattress back, and one of the things that with Costco was that he had purchased products there before he kind of knew what the return policy was. It was easy, and I think they even talked about where Costco was gonna actually pick up the mattress at his house, so that whole convenience factor, and knowing that he could return it, he could test it out, try it, and then that would be there.
Lilliana Robinson: that those are exactly right, so that that
Lilliana Robinson: features of buying at Costco. There's a reason that the poll is directly opposite the anxieties, so every anxiety he could have had for that the poll is now replacing those, and it was stronger, so he may have been afraid. Oh, what if I waste the money? Nope, you can return it
Lilliana Robinson: even like bringing it right out to the car and being able to touch it. All of those things that you're talking about. they're outweighing the anxieties he may have had so extremely correct.
Lilliana Robinson: Marisa.
Marisel Polanco: I was gonna actually said the same thing, my co-founder said. But I'm thinking about one more thing about the wife they had. They were able to touch it.
Marisel Polanco: And the white touch that. So it's almost like, Okay, I'm I'm good to go like my wife actually touch this. She liked it so it was like to me it was a big poll that she got. No, he had not only the the approval of the wife, but like
Marisel Polanco: she actually could feel it
Lilliana Robinson: so true. So again, that's like the opposite of the anxiety. So it's it's comforting every single thing he could be worried about, and it's mitigating all of that fear.
Christy Serrato | PairAnything: happier life
Lilliana Robinson: totally agree. I think Richelle put happier family life in the chat. Same thing.
Arthur Fields: Yeah, to relate what to to rely well to piggyback on what was just said. to me. I think I know we're talk. We already talked about the push, but the push. It was almost a push
Arthur Fields: regarding the wife right? The wife had a push to her paying. Was that like, I need a happier husband. So like I'm at this breaking point where, like, okay, fine. Let's get another mattress. Right? So yeah, happier life for them, right? And then it was just a validation for for the husband like, okay, I got that.
Arthur Fields: She's she's now validating that we can get a new bed. It's more of a a push, I don't know, but like identifying the push with the wife as well, would help validate. The the this I can't. Brian's purchase for new metrics.
Arthur Fields: So yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: I've never thought about it like that.
Lilliana Robinson: Viewing forces diagram from the wife's perspective. But that's so true.
Lilliana Robinson: Nelson.
Nelson Mitchell: I've got 2 was thinking the online research that he did in advance sort of like, allowed him to go into the store primed to
Nelson Mitchell: buy it like when he saw it cause he felt comfortable with the information already.
Nelson Mitchell: And the other thing that he mentioned was that the box was small
Nelson Mitchell: and like, even though it was too big for his cart, and he went back and had to get a flat bed like I think he was excited that you could fit it in his car and just take home. So that made it easier to impulse by
Lilliana Robinson: so true, so convenience. Convenience is a huge pull, pretty much every time you buy something conveniently. That is a pull force. And what I'm hearing you say, Neil, can you go to slide
Lilliana Robinson: like the the timeline side right before this?
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. So what I'm hearing you say Nelson is when he gets to that buying point right after deciding there are so many little parts that led up to him, saying yes, and swiping the credit card in that instant. It's like one of the most mind blowing things I learned when I was learning jobs to be done is that every single purchase that we make even a pack of gum in the checkout lane at the grocery store
Lilliana Robinson: has a multitude of little moments that lead up to that.
Lilliana Robinson: If those little moments didn't happen, we would not have purchased it. So there's no such thing as an impulse. Buy.
Lilliana Robinson: All of these things led up to it so like you said he saw the papers beforehand. He had been thinking about it for a very long time. He knew if his wife said yes, he would be very interested in whatever mattress it was. All those things, all of those experiences led into this.
Lilliana Robinson: So keep that in mind when you're plotting the timeline as well. We can go back to the forces now. Jeremy.
Jeremy Banning: yeah, everybody, I mean everybody pretty much said it on the top, but I like how you frame it with the the opposite of ex anxiety. It. It almost diffuse the situation to the point where
Jeremy Banning: he was the only one standing in the way of his, of that happiness, because all of this concerns and
Jeremy Banning: like, what if we're if used?
Jeremy Banning: So it put the onus on him to make that final step, to to make the purchase
Lilliana Robinson: a hundred percent. Christy.
Lilliana Robinson: you're on mute, Christy.
Christy Serrato | PairAnything: No, II wanted to get back to the endorsement from the wife like, there are times when you're making this decision, and somehow someone kind of vouchs for it, and that kind of pulls you
Christy Serrato | PairAnything: to to to. You know to that solution. How is that captured here in these forces
Christy Serrato | PairAnything: being pulled to the new solution from the wife. No, no, I guess just like when something gets endorsed like in this case. This endorsement from the wife, that kind of help convince the husband. But II just see it like in like, you know, if if I'm buying a pack of gum and I know that it's it's someone that I trust loves that. How do I capture that here? So like the influence or economy right now? 100 pull
Lilliana Robinson: so just like Bob, put in the chat. It's social proof. So all of these forces can be anything of the functional, social, or emotional. It can be any of those 3 or a combination that sounds like it's a social pull. It's 100. Pull. This person that I trust likes it. This person that I trust that also has a stake in it likes it like the wife or someone that is not even involved. But I trust their opinion, like an influencer, likes it.
Lilliana Robinson: Another thing could be like they have it so I want it so I can fit in with them. There are lots of nuances with like what it is, but those are all polls.
Lilliana Robinson: Antonio and Marcel, let's take your 2 polls, and then we're gonna move on.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: Yeah, a couple of things like one of the things he mentioned is that he had done a lot of research. But the reason why he didn't want to buy because he had to move. And so there was a lot going on, and finally, after remove and got settled, and he was in a better mental state. I would say he was ready to make the purchase. And then the second thing also, I remember from the interviews the fact that he could always go back to the old mattress. I think he mentioned. He had 2 mattress in the same room.
Lilliana Robinson: and so the having the safety to go back roll back to the old product was also something maybe could could have been a pool in a way. Yeah. And I think that's a poll, because it's kind of counteracting the habit which we'll get to in a second. It's like it's not. He doesn't even have to get rid of the habit, cause he's keeping the old mattress there. So that's a poll where it's like he doesn't even have to take the risk.
Lilliana Robinson: And then the first one that you said
Lilliana Robinson: the moving thing is interesting cause I think Nelson also put something similar in the chat about moving. So the moving piece is actually, I would say, a push and a pull, because there's a poll where it's I now have the mental clarity like you were saying. And Nelson was saying, it's a push, because he's moving so it's like an impetus like his whole life is kind of getting turned upside down, and it's a good time for change.
Lilliana Robinson: And he kind of has to do something with his bed like it can't just stay where it is, because he's moving to a new house. So I would say, it's kind of both
Lilliana Robinson: mar yourself.
Marisel Polanco: I was thinking that he mentioned that he was Germopho, and I feel it was such a poll that he, when he was a Costco
Marisel Polanco: he might not be. I'm I just remembering that that he didn't want to do online because he didn't want to take the risk. But then he didn't want to go to a matter store because they wanna lay down on the mattress, and they would the salespeople. So it was like the perfect scenario of
Marisel Polanco: just being able to buy without going to a store or doing it online and being able to just fill it.
Marisel Polanco: Have the option to return it if they don't want it
Lilliana Robinson: exactly. Yeah. A lot of people in the past have really honed in on the Germa folk piece
Lilliana Robinson: because it is a huge poll for him, like he mentioned, sit a few times. Nelson, I'm gonna have you put your poll in the chat because we're gonna move on to habit.
Lilliana Robinson: So for habits. Remember, habits are keeping Brian at the status quo. So what was his status quo? What were the things he was worried about that he didn't want to give up. So it's different than like things he's just worried about. In general, those are anxieties. Habit is what what pained him to give up or to change.
Lilliana Robinson: What was he used to.
Lilliana Robinson: Lisa.
Lisa Hennessy (she/her), Travaras: like this is where that sun cost fires, comes in right, bought the mattress, thinking he'll have it for 10 years, and it's spent the money thinking he'll it'll last him much longer.
Lilliana Robinson: That's exactly right. So when you said that earlier, that's where I was getting at. So I already paid for this, and my like. My uncle sold it to me. It was a good deal, not a great mattress, but I already bought it, you know I can't go buy another one, even though it's so bad. So the Costco
Lilliana Robinson: marketers had to overcome that habit to make it even more worthwhile, despite him, wanting to kind of stay.
Lilliana Robinson: That's exactly right. David.
David Akinyemi | TUX: Yeah, this is almost an unspoken habit, but I guess through experiences
David Akinyemi | TUX: him constantly traveling like it seemed like the majority of his time wasn't actually spent in the bed, and in a way.
David Akinyemi | TUX: maybe, exacerbated the problem, but also gave him time to forget it like. I wonder if he was at home every single day?
David Akinyemi | TUX: Would it been more prevalent versus? Hey? I know. Every couple weeks I'm I'm I'm away from my bed. And so this problem, then, no longer isn't as important as as it could be. Kind of thing.
Lilliana Robinson: That's exact. Yeah, I've never heard that before. I think that's spot on. So
Lilliana Robinson: I'm used to. The habit is pushing this rock down the road right, because I don't need to deal with it. If I have something broken in my house, and I never see it. I'm not going to fix it so I never need to use my bed, because I'm never there. That's the habit that makes
Lilliana Robinson: so much sense. Kevin.
Kevin: Yeah, I think he mentioned about at 1 point how life got in the way.
Kevin: and he said that you know he was in the process of selling a house. You know he has the kids. He's running a business. So I think these life things that happen. I don't know if that's necessarily a habit, but it seems like that was sort of, you know, a reason he kind of just kept going through the same motions within his life, and just kept pushing it off. So in a sense, it's kind of a habit, because you're just pushing it off because of these routines that keep coming.
Lilliana Robinson: I'm busy. My life is just working like it's good enough. That is kind of the entire point of habit that we're trying to overcome by selling a new solution is, we're overcoming every person's good enough status quo. So if we're selling to them, they obviously have a problem. It's not good. It's just good enough. And that's exactly what you're getting at there.
Lilliana Robinson: Dan.
Dan Ponomarenko: II also think about that. He's because he's germaphobic. It's it's it's also habitual, right? So he's he's a scare of changes because he has to touch. He has to go somewhere. He has to talk with people and feel uncomfortable around the crowd like Store or Costco.
Dan Ponomarenko: So in in in this matter the the you know, the anxiety. It's also habitual because he cannot he he's not
Dan Ponomarenko: willing to change that for this particular moment of purchase.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, I wanna highlight something you said. So they they're not willing to change piece is for habit and anxiety. So I think the force I'm hearing you talk about specifically as an anxiety force, because for both of them. The customer is not willing to change that, it's pushing them away from the new solution. But those are fear based versus habit based habit is much more like this is my life.
Lilliana Robinson: The yours and Nelson put one in the chat.
Lilliana Robinson: How universally awful people describe going to a mattress store is! And then you saying he's germaphobic, all of that are anxieties.
Lilliana Robinson: So those are also moving him away from the new solution. So we can move on to anxiety unless other people in the chat are in the queue have habits.
Lilliana Robinson: I had a question,
Ale - AWEAR: so the a
Ale - AWEAR: kind of like connected to the good enough. It feels like
Ale - AWEAR: he considers this comfort as a fact of life, as if you know
Ale - AWEAR: comfort. Improving in comfort is accessory is not kind of like a a primary need. It only becomes primary when it leads to other problems. Right? So just like the whole, the whole value proposition of a mattress is secondary to my life is not one of like the top 3 priorities.
Lilliana Robinson: that's that's exactly right. So it's just like pull and anxiety are opposites. The push and habit are opposites, too, like it's so cool. How much, thought Clay and Bob put into this! So the habits are keeping you there in your status quo until the pushes get so bad. So just like you're saying Ally, like discomfort is not something I need to solve until it's hurting me so much that my family is going to fall apart. If I don't fix this something like that.
Nelson Mitchell: Nelson, do you have an anxiety? Something yeah, that I'm not clear on that. Whether it's a habit or an anxiety, and it goes on addressed, is what to do with the old mattress. So he gets the new mattress, and he was talking about like, Oh, you know, I gotta get rid of the old mattress, but
Nelson Mitchell: he didn't end up getting rid of it. He just kept it right. So he's like collecting mattresses. Now, at this point, which feels like a a missed opportunity from Costco to say like, hey, we'll take the old mattress off your hands, or whatever. But
Nelson Mitchell: I wasn't sure like he he powered through that one, but it definitely felt like something that he was struggling with.
Lilliana Robinson: So that so say we're Costco, and we're interviewing Brian. That might be a thread. We wanna follow with other interviews. So it's like
Lilliana Robinson: it sounds like II think an anxiety of Brian was that he didn't want to buy a new one because he didn't know what to do with his old one. So maybe we as Costco. If we hear that in multiple interviews and that becomes a trend, maybe we should do like you said, make a program where we're taking it. Maybe that will increase sales, because there's clearly this anxiety that we can help bomb for people.
Lilliana Robinson:  okay, anybody else have an anxiety.
Lilliana Robinson: The bed being sold by his uncle, tied him down socially to maintain the relationship. Yeah, that's definitely, I think, a habit.
Lilliana Robinson: Where it's like he feels like he's tied to that old solution, because that's from his uncle.
Lilliana Robinson: I don't think he feels like fear about it, but it is definitely something that is keeping him there. Bob.
Bob Van Dell II: perhaps fearing making another expensive mistake. That he's stuck with for a long time is something I personally would probably feel anxious about.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. And I think he says that right? He says, like, I don't want this to be a mistake, that you know we're
Lilliana Robinson: a thousand dollars in the hole or something.
Lilliana Robinson: So exactly. And then Dan.
Dan Ponomarenko: thinking also part of his anxiety, is what he.
Dan Ponomarenko: he the wife, will think about right, because she's also the part of the decision making process. And II assume they sleep together on that mattress. So that's also be part of like we need to.
Dan Ponomarenko: you know, embrace some kind of social proof from the
Dan Ponomarenko: person that you share. This pain points with.
Dan Ponomarenko: you know so and again, what what wife would think about it right like, what would you like? Would she like that, you know, is, it will be comfortable like mo like more comfortable for her. You know this kind of stuff that we also have to like, you know. Consider when we make the big purchases.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. So that's probably the 2 biggest ones. What Dan said about the wife and what Bob said about the price and just making this large purchase. I think those are the 2 biggest anxieties, followed by his germophobia fear of going into the store and things like that.
Sanjith Jacob Thomas: I think one, Poll. Sorry. Did someone want to add. He's getting rid of the old. That is an city, or because he wants to.
Sanjith Jacob Thomas: More to the houses.
Lilliana Robinson: I would say anxiety, because it it was a fear it was like, I don't know what to do with this. It wasn't like I wanna stay with the old bed. It was. If I do get this new one. I don't know where to put this one.
Lilliana Robinson: so it was much more like a sticky situation for him.
Lilliana Robinson: and I think just one
Lilliana Robinson: whole
Lilliana Robinson: that we left out was.
Lilliana Robinson: he wants to get that new sleep, not just to feel that well rested, like a good feeling like we talked about, but also to be a better family man, so he wants to be a good father. He, I think he even said that he snapped at his children once.
Lilliana Robinson: because he was soouchy. He doesn't want to do that. He wants to be the father he knows he can be. He wants to be the husband he knows he can be where they don't fight. He wants to have a good marriage and a good family, and that is that pull that's like that beautiful horizon in the distance that he's trying to go toward. So that's one more giant force that he kind of brings up a lot in the interview.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, so I think we that was pretty comprehensive. You guys really, really reviewed that and understand it deeply. Does anyone have questions about the general exercise that we just did. Because after tomorrow we're gonna send you guys out to try this out for yourselves.
Nelson Mitchell: I guess. Are we gonna go through how to create the sort of discussion guide questions.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, we'll go through how to interview today. But remember, I don't know if we've said this before. We don't pre write questions. So the most important thing is that it's not scripted. And we'll we'll go through all those tips today. And then Neil is going to do an example for you guys tomorrow.
Lilliana Robinson: No, I lost you on my screen.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Maybe I got it working this time. There we go. Is it working? Now? Yeah, there we go
Neal Sáles-Griffin: back in my comfort zone with these slides. So this is where we left off yesterday. Marcel, you have a question.
Marisel Polanco: Yeah, I think. Microfounder talk about this yesterday. But it's just like a bigger discussion, I'm sure, but he's my always my.
Marisel Polanco: my crossroads. Here is lie. Do I interview in our case the restaurants? Or do I interview the people who are buying the product? And when we did this for
Marisel Polanco: our application, I do both. But then, now I'm like, after we're going deeper into this. I'm like, Hmm!
Marisel Polanco: And you mentioned yesterday. Well, who is paying you for the product? Then I'm like, huh! Maybe the customer. But it's just, you know. That's that's my question. It's like, I'm still struggling with that concept.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And and and it's a continuous struggle. I will say that maybe more of what I covered today and getting into details, going to help color that. And then also the individual sessions that will work with each of you on is going to help with that, too. So we got you on on sorting that out.
Christy Serrato | PairAnything: Chrissy. And just to add to that. Some guidance on like
Christy Serrato | PairAnything: how we interview an existing customer versus a prospective customer.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah. So the again, like on the prospective customer front. We don't recommend prospective customer who haven't experienced a switch moment
Christy Serrato | PairAnything: if if they did it with a competitor.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yes, that's that's what you should focus on. So like, don't think of jobs as sales. This is not sales. It's a different bucket of people you need to talk to, to sell, to acquires customers. This group of people have already experienced some sort of change.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They either have progress elsewhere on a competing product, or they're a recent customer of yours, and those are the people that we're here to talk to, to better understand what they you know what drove them to make a decision
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to hire something
Christy Serrato | PairAnything: excellent. Okay.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: great. All right. So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the process. I'm gonna go deep for each of these categories. But I have a few more things to explain as I go, and this section of this leg of the race for us is a little bit more text heavy because it's largely extracted from before it didn't exist as a book.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Bob wrote a book a few years ago called Demand Side Sales, 101. That'll be the first book in the Book club that I'm going to start and open for everybody to participate in. But I extracted a lot of the great excerpts from it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Which has done the best job so far of explaining the concept to date. So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: alright, so a couple of ways to think about it. So this technique for jobs to be done. Where did it come from? The interesting thing is, Bob actually
Neal Sáles-Griffin: worked with
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the government like CIA FBI, like he got like true, like interrogation and negotiation and analysis, like techniques that he derived from like people who do it professionally in that context. So the way to think about it is kind of like you're a journalist or a detective.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So the job, going into the conversation in the interviews to figure out what the story is like what happened here. You're trying to almost paint the scene of the crime, or, you know, get the get the, you know. Get the scoop.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So think of yourself like you know Colombo or Sherlock Holmes.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and then we talked a little bit about adding context, and how important that is, rather than having a more high level thing. And this is true both for the screening criteria as well as how you describe the job when you get there. But adding that context is what allows you to address those anxieties that would push a customer away from adopting your product or service. So the the snickers example that we used before.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What I mean by that context is. a lot of people will describe their businesses at a very high level, and they'll say something along the lines of when I want something to eat. Grab a snickers
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right? That was very similar to
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the original commercial that we saw of the guy in the rug store, and he's the the guitar guy singing. You all were adding a lot of color to what you thought was going on. But we were reaching.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We didn't have those details from the actual ad itself. It was our assumptions based on
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the other inputs that we already knew about snickers. So my question to you is when I want something to E grab a snickers. Is that contextualized? Or is there more detail we can add to this, and if so, do you have that to share?
Malc - Xsauce: I'll take a step. We we eat all types of things right? So I think context of day, right of why, this is for the snickers bar.
Christy Serrato | PairAnything: So when I want something to eat, grab a snickers. Is that right? Or is there more context to add to grab a snickers
Mark Kirzhner (Cicada): wh. What? I need energy when I need some some kind of extra power. And
Neal Sáles-Griffin: okay, how about if I'm if I'm in a hurry.
Kelvin Alaneme - LocumDoc: Yeah, that
Kelvin Alaneme - LocumDoc: that kind of explains it gives it
Kelvin Alaneme - LocumDoc: gives it more context.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Let's do more. Let's give it more context.
Jeremy Banning: So in the in the actual in the, in that scene. Well, from one of some of the things between where, when I need a boost of energy, right? Maybe instead of doing a copy break.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, yeah. And maybe when you need that boost.
Jeremy Banning: like, sometimes like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you're really hungry.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I'm starving.
Ale - AWEAR: It's an indulgence right? It's not temporarily
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so. The difference between when I want something to eat grab a snickers, and when I want, when I'm in a rush I'm starving, and I want something to eat gratis snickers the context that is colored with just a few more words
Neal Sáles-Griffin: offering that extra clarity is everything.
Lilian, did you want to say something? And then there's 2 named Bob.
Lilliana Robinson: I'll say at the end of this for this.
Tunde IO: you know, I was just gonna add that. When when you want something to eat while you're doing something else as well. So it's kind of like multitasking. Hey? There we go. Okay, finish the job here. So there it is. So when I'm in a rush I'm starving. I need something to eat with one hand while I'm on the go, and I'm not sure when the next time I'll be able to eat this.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: grab a snickers
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that level of fidelity with the context of each of your customers in all of your respective businesses is what we're looking for and what most people struggle to attain.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: This is what the jobs framework will help you do. A lot of people amongst your competitors will describe. They're in a rush, and they want something to eat. That's better than I want something to eat. But it's not really that good.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So our goal with you all for the first few weeks of our program going into texts, ours is that when you go into mentor madness, the level of clarity you have about your customer situation is going to be so robust and clear that you'll get into the real stuff about what to do with product, what to do with fundraising and what to do with sales, and not get so distracted where they don't have an understanding of who it is you're trying to sell to in the first place, and what they need.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Bob.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: yeah, with everything you just said. It feels like what I have to say is kind of off the the point. But I'm gonna share anyways.
Bob Van Dell II: One of the things I remember from the commercials is you're not yourself when you're hungry. And so when you're actually, you're hangry
Bob Van Dell II: and when you're not in like the normal state of mind or happy.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: here's the solution to your problem. It's a sneakers like in that kind of could be in many different situations, which is why they got a bunch of commercials for that. But oh, 100. Well, Bob, your point stands because, to be clear, what I'm showing you here is on the business side of understanding what the situation is that informs our product development and marketing process. This is not the marketing.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm not saying billboard up, saying, Are you rush starving, and you need something to eat with one hand on the go buy a sticker. I'm not saying that it's not a promotional tool. This is a contextual tool for us internally to do product development.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I appreciate your point. I think it's right.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Ally.
Ale - AWEAR: yeah, it's more of a question. How does the fact that this is an indulgent suite
Neal Sáles-Griffin: pack, with calories playing to these because it's not mentioned. There's other options for the exact same purpose. Yeah, that's a great question. I don't know. If you remember Clay Christensen's milk check video.
Ale - AWEAR: He addresses this on the nose in the best way possible. He goes.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know. the the milkshake in the morning he goes.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Who cares what's in it? I don't. I just know that it keeps keeps me full, and I'm not worried about you know my hunger, and
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm no longer bored in my in my commute throughout the day. So at the end of the day there are other products to hire right if the issue and concern is more health related.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But there are tweaks to products that can be made. So Mcdonald's didn't just keep selling milkshakes in the morning. What do they do?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They turned them into smoothies in par phase, like, yeah, they they expand the offering in a way make you feel better about the fact that you're consuming
Neal Sáles-Griffin: a massive amount of calories in a very small container. But at least you feel better about it, and it's slightly better. There's some granola in it. There's some berries, you know. It's a little better now. But there, there are ways to
Neal Sáles-Griffin: target the subgroups that may have more resistance to how you would perceive something like snickers to be quote unhealthy.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But when it's about the job it's not about
Neal Sáles-Griffin: health as much as it's about energy
Neal Sáles-Griffin:  right? So they're willing to make that trade off in that moment, because of the convenience
Lilliana Robinson: yeah, ally, I think that was a great example of like a preconceived notion. So like.
Lilliana Robinson: I even think that, too, when I think of snickers, it's like, Oh, well, that's a candy bar. But the people who are buying it. The person Bob saw in the airport, and same with the people that Clay interviewed for for Mcdonald's. They were not hiring those as candy, because the competitor for the milkshake, remember, was bagel and cream cheese. It was a banana, it those were the things that Clay mentioned
Lilliana Robinson: for Bob, the things in the collective set. Remember the pictures Neil put up. It was a hamburger. It was a power protein bar things like that. So even though maybe you, even if you're selling the snickers, maybe you see it as a dessert. You see it as candy, but your customers don't, and so it's not going to be present in the job statement, and honestly, it was probably a not high priority. It was probably a very low priority for Mcdonald's to change the sugar
Lilliana Robinson: cause. They could have just kept marketing it exactly, and that mindset was why they were so caught up in competing directly with Milky Way, which actually was treated like a true dessert.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like a calorie. Dense candy, ice cream bar, you know, like those types of things. So the the fact that they were thinking in that way is what ended up kind of tripping them up for a while
Lilliana Robinson: before we move on from this slide, Neil. 2 things I like to highlight here. So Neil got at one of them.
Lilliana Robinson: This is the first part of the jobs to be done. Statement. You're going to write one of these for every interview you do, and then you will write amalgamationed
Lilliana Robinson: Jtvd. Statements for your entire subset of interviews that you do
Lilliana Robinson: 2 mistakes that we see, Neil was saying, they're usually too vague. So when I want something to eat is what people usually begin their job statement with that level of clarity and depth.
Lilliana Robinson: We want it to get to the very, very specific situation where you can pinpoint that exact moment, and all of the attributes that make up that circumstance. Do you see that it has nothing to do with any sort of person? It doesn't say when I'm a man in my thirties to forties, and I live in a metropolitan area. Then I do this. This could be anyone. This could be my grandma. This could be a little girl across the street. This could be any one of you.
Lilliana Robinson: It could be any one.
Lilliana Robinson: And that second mistake I always see people make is that when they write the job statement. This beginning part is tailored to the product because you, in the back of your mind, know that you want this job statement to lead to your product.
Lilliana Robinson: This, what we're writing right here is not tailored to a snickers. So if I was selling snickers and I wanted it to be closer to snickers. I would probably write when I'm in a rush, starving. Have a sweet tooth, and want something that has like nuts or something like that.
Lilliana Robinson: but that's not what the people are asking for. They want something that they can eat with one hand that is going to fulfill their starving need, and they're not sure when the next time they're going to be able to eat it. So it stays in there for a while. That can actually be filled with many different things. So don't kind of
Lilliana Robinson: reverse. Engineer your job statement to fit your product. And people well, meaning do that like they don't mean to. It'll be subconscious. You just have preconceived notions that you have to kind of expel for this, and just pretend like you're not selling your product, so you can be objective.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And we'll point out we're exactly in the formula that happens all the time momentarily. But that was very well, said
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Brian.
Brian | Circle+: Yeah, I hope you guys can hear me. I think, my, okay, cool. So I kind of
Brian | Circle+: wondered outside the box for a minute. And I'm just curious.
Brian | Circle+: How does observation complement or detract the jobs you done process cause, I could see observation. Yeah, so like, Ca, user or customer observation, or the existing or potential customers. So cause.
Brian | Circle+: So, for example, in the Mcdonald's example, they observed something, and it kind of created a riddle for them.
Brian | Circle+: whereas with the sneakers example, you gave Bob.
Brian | Circle+: notice something that led him towards the moment. There's a form of custom observation. That's I'm just wondering. Yes, and I can have an interview conversation with him hard. But how does observation as a tool in terms of getting more inferences about your customer complement or work with this?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, these are easy examples, because they're physical goods that you can observe someone purchasing and consuming.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Not the case for most of you, all right. And what you're offering and what you're trying to sell and understand. So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: given that I would say that observation becomes less important like in real time.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What's great about this framework? And all the reps that have been done over the past 2030 years on it has been.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: it still works in conversation with people in A, in a interview post consumption
Neal Sáles-Griffin: post purchase.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But if you can do it, it's great. David.
David Akinyemi | TUX: Yeah, I was hoping, I guess maybe not the time, but a little. Explain a bit more about the job statement, and
David Akinyemi | TUX: it seemed like when we were just working through this you mentioned. The goal is to get to deep clarity and context about the customer situation.
David Akinyemi | TUX: but it almost felt like there still needs to be this iterative process that happens in the sense that, like.
David Akinyemi | TUX: there's no way we can start off with that
David Akinyemi | TUX: snickers before, because we just saw the commercial like it. Almost like told us the answer versus the ma, the mattress thing, where, if we were to take Brian, for example, we may have a a version of it. But
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Brian also might not be exactly what we're looking for specifically like when it comes to touching the mattress. But he's a German interview, right? I do like 10 to 15 of those. And then what you do with those 10 to 15 interviews. David is then, you see, patterns emerge, and once the patterns emerge and you cluster the jobs. And then you realize that there's Brian. And then there's, you know, Lucy. And then there's like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know, Jaden, they all have different things that they want need. And there's different profiles and different jobs to do for each of them. And you have to decide as a business. Do we address all of them? Do we choose one and go deep.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Right? Did we take a couple and throw one out? There's a lot of choices that you have once you get those insights, so we'll talk about what that looks like today.
David Akinyemi | TUX: One quick follow up is, should the jobs
David Akinyemi | TUX: change per interview? Or should we have one hypothesis that we're testing at each
Neal Sáles-Griffin: great question. So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the screening criteria that you define should develop a sense of consistency with who you're talking to and what situation they're in and what their struggling moments are. However.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: once you do the analysis post the interview
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I and and Bob hasn't actually like commissioned this. This was like a little bit of a tweak on my side that I think is helpful to founders that I work with.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I have every founder I work with craft, a job statement for each individual interview that they conduct.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I found that to be a great starting point, to keep everybody going and help them understand what the cluster job would look like once they understand what the job is for each of the people they talk to.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's not necessarily a technique or tactic that I think Bob has taught quite yet, but it is something that I found to be helpful for how I teach it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They get it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So all right. So job story. I just talked about this a little bit, but
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the notion here is exactly what Liliana just expanded upon, because most of us, for most of the time. Even up till now, with your business, you have a lot of assumptions, a lot of subjectivity and personas around who you think you're serving.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's not completely wrong
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to be clear. Your intuition and your experience in your life has led you to a point where you've identified a meaningful problem to solve with your business. We believe you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So just to be clear, like, we're not completely dismissing the importance of one's own instincts when it comes to addressing a need and understanding other people's needs, but I think we can kick it up a notch and enhance your understanding of those needs. So the persona that lots of ux and marketer. People like to use
Neal Sáles-Griffin: tends to include demographic information that we throw out.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So you know, if II teach at a business school, and it's ironic that I teach at a business school because I do nothing but talk trash about business school students, even to their face. But
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I tell them like you all were trained to do this like marketing profile persona thing.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and we're going to have to throw all that out the window. I'm sorry because it's irrelevant to our understanding. Now, later on, when you're at scale and you have thousands or hundreds of thousands or millions of users and customers in a huge data set. This actually does become interesting and relevant.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But right now, when you're trying to get your first 100 customers
Neal Sáles-Griffin: 30 s to buy and eat something which is going to stave off my hunger for 30 min, explains it not
Neal Sáles-Griffin: my professional career or my weekend habits.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so few principles to run through. People buy for their own reasons.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So it's more about progress than your product or service, and the more you internalize that the better off you'll be in understanding this.
Neal Sáles-Griffin:  Approaching sales from this mindset is going to set you apart
Neal Sáles-Griffin: as the co-founder or CEO of your company. as the lead chief salesperson like Vincent, talked about yesterday when we kicked off our call.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Another principle to share with you is that nothing is random and everything is caused. This is slightly hyperbolic, but I believe it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and the causal mechanisms that lead people to take actions are key, and that is a fundamental kind of mindset to adop when you're taking in jobs to be done.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Oh, another side thing. I don't know if this is said anywhere in my slides in the future. But I should say
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I say jobs to be done a lot. We say jobs to be done a lot.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's irrelevant outside of our context here together.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So just so, you know, when you're talking to venture capitalists when you're talking to, you know your your team. Other stakeholders. You don't have to say jobs to be done.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: If anyone's seen the movie Fight Club. Does anybody know the first rule of Fight Club? Somebody knows it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Don't talk about. Don't talk about it. That's right. So II kind of say that with jobs it's like kind of our like little secret weapon. But at the same time it's not that deep. It's really just.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm understanding my customer better like that's a very human, simple way to put it like we're just doing customer discovery
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and and and and empathizing and understanding. So we have a fancy language and framework around it. But don't take it too seriously. It's not that big of a deal at the end of the day. Other people have found ways to get to the same level of understanding we're talking about, maybe more indirectly or intuitively, because they're just an empathetic or a really smart person.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So 3, the struggle creates demand
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so, understanding the struggling moment. Not just a wish, a want, a nice to have a desire, a prospect
Neal Sáles-Griffin: when they're struggling, that leads to progress and sales so helping them figure out
Neal Sáles-Griffin: how to overcome the struggling moment is key. And when I talk to so many people who struggle to identify a customer, they're trying to. They're trying hard, and they can't get people to say yes, or to sign up or to go for a trial.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I asked them, Well, what's their struggling moment? And they're like well, and and then kind of like waffle their way through, explaining that there isn't really a struggling moment yet. So figure out who's struggling, and those are the people willing probably to pay you
Neal Sáles-Griffin:  So I'm gonna skip this one and talk about who you interview and how to choose them. So here's one other technique that I kind of came up with. That helps people. If you ever get stuck, and you're not sure who you should talk to is for your business. I advise everybody to write a customer success story.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So what problem is your customer currently facing?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: How does that impact their lives? And why is this a significant pain to them. If you just write a story about what they struggle with, and then what success would look like for them in an ideal world.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So what does their life look like after the problem is solved.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That exercise seems to illuminate
Neal Sáles-Griffin: all of our biases and assumptions that we're making about what we think the person is going through as opposed to what we might go find out. So it's a great like starting point to form a hypothesis around what you think you'll know, because for the people who are more skeptical of of approaches like this to a discovery framework.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'll just tell them, like, all right.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: let's just say that you already know the answer. And you know the jobs.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Let's go into the research saying that we think this is what we're gonna learn. And I'm asking you to maybe waste one or 2 weeks of your time on talking to people to tell you something that you already know.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Sure, I'll take that risk. If you trust me in the process.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I've never had a moment where I've asked someone to do it, where they haven't learned new and beneficial things for their company after coming out the other end.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: as you do this exercise, if you choose to do it, I'm not gonna ask you all to write a customer success, or this is an optional exercise. But make sure you don't describe features or functionalities of your product
Neal Sáles-Griffin: focus on the experience and then make sure that you're using the story as a way to communicate what's really going on. And then, when you talk about the solution.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: talk about how progress is achieved today. So the success story that you define
Neal Sáles-Griffin: when you imagine how people might be able to make real progress. You can do like some initial scoping interviews. Where you focus on understanding what are all of the different things that people hire to accomplish my job today. So in in fancy Vc terms, we would call this competitive analysis.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: This is what we do on our side to make sure that whoever we invest in. We understand the competitive landscape. You all have probably gotten that question plenty of times already. By now, if you've been talking to investors. So when you think about what the alternative hires are. There's both direct and indirect competitors. The direct ones are the people who do what you do, the ones that you know you had a little stinging pain feeling in your heart. These are like, they stole my idea. They're kind of doing it, but we're better, or we want to be better.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: The way I ask the question which some of you may remember in our conversations is, I go? Who do you admire amongst your competitors like, who's doing it right? Who are you learning from?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I really love looking up to people who are doing it because they keep me honest.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I have to be good enough as a CEO and as an entrepreneur, to run a business that can directly compete with other people that are trying to carbon copy my style.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and I need to be unique enough to be able to do that. So I can't win or compete off of
Neal Sáles-Griffin: having a secret about what I do.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There needs to be more depth. There, that isn't. Is it easy to copy
Neal Sáles-Griffin: if you can say the words of what you're doing, and that puts you at risk because someone else can take those words and do the same thing. Your business is too fragile in that state.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright. So, learning objective, I talked about framing the learning questions. So we've talked about understanding the importance of the customer. Now we hone in on the objective.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So what is the biggest unknown that is important to you and your business right now you're going into tech stars, you have goals, you have dreams. You wanna either raise capital or you wanna increase customer success, or you want to, you know, increase revenue. You have some sort of goal that you're going to feed to us that will work with you on.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Now, from this discovery and customer research process, help us define what that would look like for you, and why it's important
Neal Sáles-Griffin: once you've done that, now you move in the screening criteria.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So this is where we talk about the energy and how extreme it should be for these initial people. You talk to and then, on top of that I also offered up the shocking news that we're not looking to interview 100 people. We're trying to talk to 10 to 15 people.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So remember that quality begets quantity. and that is our priority here. And it was shocking, and I tell you myself I did not believe it at first.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: When Bob told me 10 years ago. 10 to 15 interviews is enough. I didn't believe him.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: II was like super skeptical, I thought, like having more numbers and more perspective, and more people would color it. But here's what happened
Neal Sáles-Griffin: as we were doing interviews through multiple experiments. Once you're past the 15 interview, Mark. and you're talking to more people who fit the screening criteria that you defined.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: The interviews start to get shorter
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because you start to fill in the gaps of what they're going to say, because the patterns are already there.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So if it's not 10 to 15 interviews, which is an arbitrary number I know. do as many where you get to the point where you can predict what they're going to say.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And if you're doing jobs to be done right by the time you're 15 or 20,
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know what's going on.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And you know which job they fit into. You're like, oh, they're in Job number one, or their job number 2, or they're not. They're Job number 3 and 2. So you'll start to slot people into the insights that have already emerged as the true patterns for the the hires
Neal Sáles-Griffin: which I love that moment. It means you did it right when you can do that. I said this phrase last week or yesterday. Bitching ain't switching, so we're not talking to people who complain
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like people who aren't willing to do anything about progress. Those are people who you could sell to potentially.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But they're not people that we want to talk to to better understand what the problem is, because they haven't done enough yet to make progress, to teach us more about the problem.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Like we said, it's not about demographics. Asian geography aren't saying enough about the problem. Here are some examples of the contrast. And J. Lo! If J is J. Lo! Here are you on the call. Oh, there you are! I see you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: This reminds me of what you asked me about yesterday. So here's an excerpt from Bob's book that I think would be really helpful.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So couple examples here. So college students with busy and stressful schedules
Neal Sáles-Griffin: contrast that with college students who started going to therapy within the past 6 months.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Very different ways of framing who you want to talk to. So stay away from, like the vague categorization of someone who
Neal Sáles-Griffin: has an attributer characteristic, and instead focus on an action that they took that you can track and talk about. So when you go into the interview, you could talk about. They hired a therapist.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What went into that decision as opposed to having a certain
Neal Sáles-Griffin: feeling or difficult. You know, moment that they're experiencing
Neal Sáles-Griffin:  another one. People who are curious about cryptocurrency versus people who recently, you know, bought Bitcoin.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: III interviewed a Md. Candidate this morning, and it was. It was interesting
Neal Sáles-Griffin: we were kind of like. Ran out of things to say. I like finished my questions. He goes. Did you hear about Bitcoin? It's at 60,000 today, I was like, oh, no, I didn't know. But I'm sure some of you guys are happy. If that's good for you. I have no idea.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm chilling. I'm investing in you guys, not in other markets.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I'll keep going.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So a note for B 2 B
Neal Sáles-Griffin: businesses don't buy products. People do. I made this point yesterday as well.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but the decision maker, and usually it's more than one right. There's a chain of command that you have to navigate through. So figure out the key stakeholders, whoever the champion can be and understand their job.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So one person may want to look like they're
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the hero. Another person may want to
Neal Sáles-Griffin: cover their ass and make sure that they're not, you know, getting in trouble or reprimanded from something that went, you know, poorly, at the company. There's so many different emotional reasons for why people, even in A B 2 B context, would hire you
Neal Sáles-Griffin: for progress or become a customer of yours.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So we can help you with that. One of the big questions we get with jobs is how to find the people to interview.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So there's a few ways. But we have a few very clear ways that have. You know, most of our founders have found success through. There's a website called Respondent I/O.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So when you get good enough with your screening criteria. and you have clarity on what it is. I haven't had to use these platforms to find people. I use my own network. And I'll talk about some of those techniques.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But just make sure that it's very, very clearly stated and defined.
Neal Sáles-Griffin:  but you should be able to find folks through these platforms. But it's really important to take extra caution around the survey.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So a lot of people. When you're having conversations.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you'll ask leading questions.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And instead of asking them like, if they've purchased, you know a thing in the past 6 months that very, very special clause and and and word win.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: When did you buy
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so when I learned to use win instead of why or have you?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It changed the game?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Because when grounds you in reality, when forces people to go back into time and space, when they were literally doing something and say what happened.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So when is a much more powerful tool in a jobs to be done interview than why?
Neal Sáles-Griffin:  you can
Neal Sáles-Griffin: also include open-ended questions. So this gives the interviewee room to fill in the gaps rather than you, getting too detailed and too specific in a way that narrows what they have to say.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Another way to get interviewees is to leverage your personal networks. This is pretty much how I've done it. 99% of the time is I will leverage, you know, wherever these people live, or I would ask for referrals from my network. Most of you are forming community in some way, shape or form with your business. There are those communities that you're familiar with, where you can tap into finding people to talk to who've recently struggled.
Neal Sáles-Griffin:  so one of the challenges you're going to face, though, is that it's super like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: easy to find people who are related to the problem you're you're solving. But it's going to be a lot harder to screen for the actual behavior. So you need to be pretty stringent on the screening criteria
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and just know that even though it's hard.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That means that your competitors are probably not doing it either.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I get excited when I have very narrow, very challenging screening criteria to find people to talk to, because
Neal Sáles-Griffin: it's very likely that no one else within my, you know, category of business
Neal Sáles-Griffin: are doing that kind of work doing the hard job of finding the right people to talk to in those situations. So that is like.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think, part of the hunt.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That makes this process meaningful, and I enjoy it. And if any of you all struggle to find the right people to talk to, we're
Neal Sáles-Griffin: happy as a team to help brainstorm, better ways to find the right people to speak to. So here's a summary of the process. Interview. People who search from one product to another understand their decision making process.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And you analyze the forces that made them switch.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We'll talk about how to frame the interviews in a second, and then what to do afterwards, too. But this is like a quick checkpoint
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to make sure that everything we've shared so far makes sense any questions on this.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Antonio.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: Yeah. So Ali and I identify 4 potential customers where B, 2 B, 2 C,
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: and I was wondering whether we should do like 10 to 15 interviews for each of the 4 categories. Or.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: okay. So what I would say is.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: kind of similar what we talked about yesterday.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You should
Neal Sáles-Griffin: given your resources. You might want to choose one versus the other. That will teach you the most about the problem net.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So if you have the stomach for it, there have been plenty of examples of founders who have had a dual process where they interview both segments and subsets. But the problem is, is, I would be caution. I would caution you not to conflate the 2.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So if you're going to do it, have separate.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know, kind of initiatives to do so, because each interview sprint has its own characteristics and experiences.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And it's really hard to like switch brains from one category to the other when you're doing debriefs and whatnot.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. What we've seen from people in the past is during this jobs to be done. Set that we're all gonna do together that everyone's required to do, they'll do one. And then in like week 3. Once we finish that they'll start with the other set, and you can get personalized help from our team. If you wanna continue doing JTVD. After
Lilliana Robinson: you do it with the whole group.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Ellie.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I was just going to ask that if we could get feedback from you to just like, discuss these 4 categories and get your input as to what would be the the best way to go with the resources we have. Yeah, this is what I think. I mean, there's hopefully other characteristics of our program that are special and unique. But this is like bread and butter for us like this is what we bring to the table that arguably no other, you know, experience or program can offer. So I'm I'm really proud to offer that to you. All.
Lilliana Robinson: Something we wanted to introduce today, Neil, is that our team? Sophie and Kate are going to be having one on one's. I'm going to send out a calendar today. So that you can sign up, and every single person here is going to have a one on 1 4 jobs to be done either tomorrow or Friday or next week. Whenever you guys are free
Lilliana Robinson: and they're gonna sit with you and try and get your screening criteria down to a T, and that's also a time that you can talk to them about what group you should be interviewing. So you are, gonna have those one on ones in the coming days.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But, to be clear, the reason all of y'all are here is because you already have demonstrated to us that you have a level of understanding of this process and framework that stood out
Neal Sáles-Griffin: across a thousand people who threw their hat in the ring. You all stood firm as the ones who had the most potential to grasp this in the time frame that we have.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I made literally this framework a part of my selection criteria, for who I invest in
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because of how important it is.
So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: alright. Oh, oh, Dr. Kelvin.
Kelvin Alaneme - LocumDoc: okay, sorry, Neil. Just to clarify for a business that has a B to B+B to C, but is the B to B aspect that
Kelvin Alaneme - LocumDoc: add the paying customers. If we're doing like 10 to 15 interviews, would it be wise to
Kelvin Alaneme - LocumDoc: like, you know? I think yesterday the implication was, interview the people that are paying, so would it be wise to do. 10 interviews for the B 2 B. But still, because the order B to see maybe it's free for them. Just do 5 interviews just to get a feel of
Kelvin Alaneme - LocumDoc: exactly what they want. Or should we just focus on doing any interviews in the screening criteria exercise. Sorry to jump in. I just want to clarify it. So.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think on the B 2 C side. If you said they're not paying.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We might want to refine that further. So I would need to take more time with you to like better. Understand what we want to learn on the B 2 side
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to to know where the friction is, because I wouldn't advise
Neal Sáles-Griffin: loosely interviewing people who, you know are are your users, but you don't quite know what the energy is like. We need to dig a little bit deeper to make sure we understand what we're trying to learn from them.
Kelvin Alaneme - LocumDoc: Okay, so sorry just to clarify something. It's not a question about them not paying just that. Maybe. Let's say you, you are prioritizing growth user groups for just like when Facebook started you
Kelvin Alaneme - LocumDoc: prioritizing user groups. But then they are paying indirectly from because we are dealing with recruitment agencies as well as doctors. So we're trying to make the doctors free. In the pool. And then the agencies are paying so indirectly. The doctors are also paying to residual. So got it. Okay? So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I, this is a definitely like a deeper offline dig
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to help you, because
Neal Sáles-Griffin: what you're describing is that you have a few stakeholders at different levels. And we're gonna need to. If your if your goal is to increase that like the Facebook example you just gave, it's funny, you say that, because
Neal Sáles-Griffin: what are we to Facebook? II don't know if any of you all are even Facebook users, but II am, and I was on it in 2,005, when you know they expanded to a few universities, and mine was one of them. But as a user on Facebook, what am I?
Sanjith Jacob Thomas: I'm just another product.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, I'm the product is is a little creepy.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But it's true, like you're the product. If you're on social media. If you're on Instagram or Tiktok, or Facebook, or any of those platforms. you're not
Neal Sáles-Griffin: a customer for sure. and your half user
Neal Sáles-Griffin: more than half product.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because they're tracking your keystrokes. They might even be tracking where your eyes are going. They're tracking what you're looking at, what you slow down and and scroll on. They're looking at all of that information to sell to advertisers so that they can get you to buy products from them.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's the job.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So it's a it's a strange line of work, and it's a business model that I can't teach you how to be successful at. But
Neal Sáles-Griffin: as a product myself, I feel used.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Sanjeeathe?
Sanjith Jacob Thomas: Yeah. So this is one question related to my co-founder? Asked Kelvin. Asked. So in our case, we do have a B twob, where how I have. One question related to the B twob is.
Sanjith Jacob Thomas: so, how do we find the or how do we interview the right person? Because sometimes the
Sanjith Jacob Thomas: our decision makers are not going to be the users.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Correct? Yeah. So my default is still to focus on the decision maker, cause they're still hiring you for a job. But if you fail to address
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the user's needs in the product experience.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: then your product will over time, not be successful. And and and and so on. One end. It's important to understand the person who's paying and signing. You know the making the final sign off. On the other hand, your point is absolutely true.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You need to understand the job of the user as well, which is fundamentally different than the person probably signing up signing up for it. So I think of any example like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: University, we have these learning management systems. So it's now canvas used to be this other thing called blackboard, at least in the United States.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: terrible like experience on the student side.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But from a university administrative standpoint it's what we need.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right for the data for the resources, the benefit. But any enterprise tool that's bloated is usually like force fed to the users of it at the institution. So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: startups have the opportunity to disrupt that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: literally disrupt that, and then bring something that actually caters to the needs of the users prior like first. So a good case study, for this would be basecamp
Neal Sáles-Griffin: basecamp tends to break into large corporations
Neal Sáles-Griffin: within teams.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So it's not like the whole company adopts the platform, but little sub groups will go. We don't want to use salesforce to do project management, or we don't want to use, you know, whatever other tools. So they'll start using base camp on the side. So it's like a little higher, almost that they utilize it for. But there's a lot of cases like that that we can help you all get closer to understanding, and there is a way to still do jobs to be done. Interviews with people who aren't the direct payer within a Bdb context, however, the the energy will be different.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So there's other things that you might have to do to better understand what their job would be Liliana
Lilliana Robinson: Neil's talking about us with doing base camp on the side.
Lilliana Robinson: I put this in the chat earlier, but basically.
Lilliana Robinson: we recommend that every single one of you who have
Lilliana Robinson: purchaser is different than users. Start with the purchasers while we're doing this altogether, and we will help you go back doing a second round for the users like Neil saying, it's equally as important that you get the product right. But we have to start with the revenue.
Lilliana Robinson: So I just raised my hand, Neil, because there's a whole dialogue going on in the chat, and I just wanted to address
Lilliana Robinson: cause a lot of people are asking about using respondent and how to find interviewees. So I see some of you saying you've used like hundreds of dollars before for just a couple of interviews. I don't want any of you to do that, so we give respondent as an option. But that should be like your last case. Scenario. First case, scenario is your own network. I saw someone say, doesn't that give bias?
Lilliana Robinson: No, because you aren't going to interview anyone that you personally know? So if you personally know them, you need a Co founder to do it, or you can have Kate do it, or you can have Sophie do it. But you need to use your network host to Facebook?
Lilliana Robinson: Have you ever had only 30 s to eat and like need something that's gonna hold you over for 30 min. If so, come, talk to me. I just need 15 min of your time, something like that. Just ask your network. Or do you know someone who works at a company who fits X criteria. It could be a friend of a friend. Have your co-founders put that out as well. Also the most profitable way to ask has also been for our founders asking their fellow classmates.
Lilliana Robinson: So if you don't know someone from your network and your cofounders don't
Lilliana Robinson: your classmates probably do so. Everyone usually helps each other like, Oh, my mom fits that, or my roommate works at a company that is literally doing what you're selling to like. Here you go, and then we trade, and we help, and it's give first. So there are many free ways that I want you all to exhaust before you even think about paying. These should all be free. You're not paying these people because
Lilliana Robinson: the majority of people we're seeing from experience the majority of people in our programs do not have to pay for the interviews. We've had every class for the past, I think 6 programs
Lilliana Robinson: do these Jtvd sessions, and very few of them have had to pay more than like $20. Total respondent is pretty cheap. You can pay very cheaply on there. We're gonna have someone from a a past company named Zest come and talk, and they actually did all their interviews on respondent. But they didn't pay very much. So I definitely don't want you guys paying like
Lilliana Robinson: tens or hundreds of dollars. That's not what should happen here. This should be completely free, if not just pennies on the dollar.
Lilliana Robinson: That's it.
Lilliana Robinson: does. Everyone did. Other people have questions cause there were like 7 people giving questions in the chat. So I just wanna address. Everybody's comments.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, cool.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I there's a perfect example of what the point I was making before in the chat. So Bob dropped in a question people he used. Base camp. What does it do for you? And why did you adopt it
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so given what I've taught y'all so far?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: How would you think I would reframe that question?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, there it is, Brian win. Exactly so. Think about the difference. Why did you adopt base camp? Why did I? But when you signed up for basecamp.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: what was going on?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What happened? When was that? Was that 5 years ago? No, it's all of a sudden you have to talk about time. You have to talk about where you were, what you were doing, who you were with.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: what you had to actually get done so rather than saying, why? Why is like well, because I wanted to be more productive. Well, why did you want to be more productive? Well, I wanted. And all of a sudden, now I'm in like La la land. Thinking about all these potential assumptions I could make about what my reason was. But when you ask me when
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that forces me to tell you what was actually going on when I made that decision
Neal Sáles-Griffin: case in point.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So, thanks for the question, Bob, I appreciate that tia and good job, Brian.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: All right. J. Lo.
J.Loh @ Travaras: a follow-up question to that. So when you're trying to get the context, and you're asking like when they made the purchase. Do you ask them when they made that switch specifically, or when they considered making a switch
Neal Sáles-Griffin: way back in the timeline start from the moment where they made the purchase. So when you bought it, what was going on? And now we start to paint the picture going backwards through that timeline.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright. So when we think about when you start an interview, so if you have the screen criteria, right, you're talking to everyone about the same thing.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You hired a therapist
Neal Sáles-Griffin: in the past 6 months. You hired a therapist. Okay, when you hired a therapist what was going on where you ultimately made that decision, and you realize that it wasn't just a spur of the moment, whimsical out of note where I'm gonna hire therapist today. But it was premeditated. There were multiple inputs. They talked to people about it. They were thinking about doing it. They Google searched it a few times and then forgot about it. And then they went back, and then finally something triggered them to go. Yes, I'm gonna do this now.
J.Loh @ Travaras: So that's the the color and the story that happens with most of these interviews that you all will conduct
Neal Sáles-Griffin: cool.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: This is great. You all like II hope you realize, like the the the the. It's super dense, like the the ideas that you all are unpacking, the clarifying questions that you're asking. This is the level of sophistication that we're hoping to get to with understanding this, this this framework.
Vincent Lucero | DubPrime: Sure go ahead.
Vincent Lucero | DubPrime:  So when you're doing the jobs to be done framework, there's obviously the separation between physical goods versus you know, finance, there's no physical good provided. Now, obviously the question that th that most people ask might be, how do you
Vincent Lucero | DubPrime: the job to be put done. Framework, if they don't already use something like what you have is what you have by definition as a startup doesn't exist within the within the market. Then how do you ask them what they use as the alternative? Now that works especially well for physical goods? Because there's an alternative. Let's sub us a substitute. But is there specific ways which you adopt this? Adapt this framework for intangible goods like money movement?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah. Ask those questions. Sure, yeah, what are they doing now to make progress? Are they doing nothing to make progress? If they're doing nothing, then it may not be a good
Vincent Lucero | DubPrime: like, potential customer. Right? Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: they're not willing to do anything to make progress. What are we trying to learn?
Vincent Lucero | DubPrime: So they're the people you want to talk to are the people who are actively doing something else to make progress? Yeah, makes sense. So the early, well, likely our case, like earlier stage starts, who are willing to do more innovative things or move quicker. Well, it could be indirect as well.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It may not be on the nose exactly what you're doing, and they're just hiring a different competitor to do it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They might be having some other
Neal Sáles-Griffin: long-winded or roundabout way to make progress, or creative, very
Neal Sáles-Griffin: customized way to do it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Most of you have something in your life where you pack together an answer, even though no clear answer exists in the market.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because there is nothing to buy to help you with it. You do it yourself. The example that you'll hear in visceral detail for me when we're in like Tahoe together
Neal Sáles-Griffin: is my big claim to fame, I guess, or whatever maybe people forgot. But I started the first coding school. I invented the coding boot camp. So that's like my big thing.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Why is? It? Wasn't because I was a good coder. No, I was actually kind of bad.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I tried so hard to learn how to code on my own, and it sucked so much.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I said. There has to be a place that I can go to help me learn, and there wasn't. So I said, Holy Cow, maybe I should start it. And I was right, and it worked. And there's a whole story about how. But, like my point being is that
Neal Sáles-Griffin: there might be a few of you. I doubt it, but there might be a few of you that have what we call non-consuming or non-consumption.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: meaning, there's literally no direct
Neal Sáles-Griffin: competitor for what you offer in the market, and you are the only game in town
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that is actually not a good thing.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I know this from my own experience. You know why you have to teach them that there's a need rather than well, not necessarily. Sometimes you teach them to need sure, other times, once you offer it, it's like, Oh, my God! Like I've been waiting for this, and no one's ever done it, and I'm so glad that you're doing it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But that's bad, too. because because you're the first person to bring it to market. You're the worst.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So then everyone else is gonna watch you suck at delivering a new thing to the market, and then they're gonna take what you did and do it better.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and they're going to wait till you trip up and make the mistakes and whatever. So there used to be this thing in business called First mover advantage. That's true
Neal Sáles-Griffin: in very rare circumstances, where, if you have a ton of money or you get a ton of traction, and you can develop a very quick kind of moat or monopoly around what you're doing super rare. So first, mover advantage is actually first mover disadvantage
Neal Sáles-Griffin: in my experience, because when you see someone break into a market. Usually a bunch of better things come out. So, for example, Facebook
Neal Sáles-Griffin: was not the first social media website. Has anyone heard of Friendster.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Does anybody know about Black planet.com? Do you know about Black? You don't know a black planet? So Black Planet was actually one of the first social media sites. You don't know about that. I was on there, and I was a kid, but it was dope it was basically a place where black it was like Facebook for black people before Facebook existed. It was great. I loved it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so anyway, I could go all day. But there's more, Antonio.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: Yeah, a a question more about the logistics of the other interview. So you know, II realize that you know, I really need to be emotionally connected to the pre person I interview, and you know, taking notes can be distracting and not and not not be present.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: How do you recommend doing that, maybe having my co-founder do do it with me. But then, instead of deductive conquer, it's any other thing. Yeah, go ahead. And the second question follow up question about logistics also, is it? I think I was reading some comments on Re. Listen to some comments about the mattress interview that it's better to do face to face. Is that the case? Or do zoom and and voice calls?
Would be just fine as well, or
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: I have answers to your questions in the upcoming slides. I'm gonna offer up a quick spoiler, though, for the folks dropping in the AI tools.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you should be doing your interview with more than one person. It should be 2 of you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's the answer, and I'll explain more why in a second. But the idea is that one person is taking notes. The other person is driving the conversation, and it should be a phone call and not a video call. And the reason being is that a lot of the times people get distracted
Neal Sáles-Griffin: by what they're seeing or worried about how they're being perceived. So you get less of the truth
Neal Sáles-Griffin: when you're actually on a video call as opposed to a voice conversation.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: All right, I'll talk to you more about this in a second, but I promise you I have slides for Santonio. If I don't address your questions by the end of these slides, you tell me
Lilliana Robinson: really quick, for those who are solo founders, we will help you be your co-pilot. So Kate Ferona, Sophie myself, Neil, or fellow classmates who want extra reps. So if you are participating in program alone. That's happened before we will make sure that you have a co-pilot. No one should be doing these interviews by themselves.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's exactly right.
Neal Sáles-Griffin:  good question, George, about bias. So how to not introduce bias.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think you should hopefully, over time, run out of friends to talk to and have other people. Friends do tend to want to lend a hand, so you will get less of the truth from them. But if you do this right and you adopt our techniques, even if you know them well.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you get to a point where, if you ask the right questions, you're getting to things that
Neal Sáles-Griffin: gets super real. And and it it becomes out of the zone of them, trying to do you a favor. And you actually just trying to get the story right of what happened. However, that being said, if one of you is friends with them.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: be the notetaker and less of the driver of the conversation.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright. Let's talk about framing the interviews, so.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: digging deep, understanding the forces of motivations that play still not the full picture
Neal Sáles-Griffin: they have to be in the right time and place in their life.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So it's natural for human behavior for us to hold back when we get asked questions. A lot of people get kind of almost like they're they're withholding in a way, right? So it's a very nuanced art to do effective interviews to extract the information you need, and not every interview is gonna go. Well, sometimes you'll get somebody who
Neal Sáles-Griffin: closes up or becomes a stone, even though they're willing to talk to you. It may not be it'll be a dud, so you'll throw out some interviews that don't quite go as well. You don't get to the right point, and sometimes, unfortunately, you'll have people who just want to give you feedback on your product
Neal Sáles-Griffin: if they're your customer, for example, and they just want to talk about what they think you should do or what they'd like something to be.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and you have to do the job of very respectfully redirecting them back to understanding the demand side of their journey, and less about what's apparent to them right now about what they want you to do as opposed to what you're doing
Neal Sáles-Griffin:  So, even though it's more like an interrogation than the subject is aware of. It's going to feel like a casual conversation like I go into it, and I'm super friendly, and I'm like talking to them like they're my friend. And I am really just developing rapport and familiarity and respect and appreciation and gratitude, and in doing so it kind of brings the mood down from something that's more tense.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and it makes it feel like you're just kind of having a friendly chat. So you also want to make sure that you go into these conversations with humility. so
Neal Sáles-Griffin: don't assume that you can fill in the gaps, and you know what they're saying, and you already understand. Go into it with ultimate curiosity.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Also remember about the causality piece. Everything is caused, nothing is random. I've said it before. I'll say it again. I'll say it more times.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah. Another phrase you'll hear us say a lot are trade offs.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Everyone makes trade-offs to make progress. It's not as simple as one thing versus another. It's always going to be a multitude of competing factors that you have to weigh when I give you all advice about a business problem, you're going to have
Neal Sáles-Griffin: any of you when we have our conversations, I'm gonna bring up trade offs. I'm not gonna tell you definitively what to do, unless it is extremely painfully obvious that you need to do it. One example to contradict myself
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because I think all of you should have founder agreements, which is why I included it as a question in the questionnaire that you all filled out. So that's something that I don't think there's trade offs on not having it versus there are. But there are right. The trade off is not having a founder. Agreement means that if things don't work out down the road and you end up being successful, and somebody ends up not spending as much time on the business.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: they still get half
Neal Sáles-Griffin: if you don't define that. So that's trust me. I'm speaking from experience on on those experiences. So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: also disconnected. Most people don't know why they do what they do. So you'll have a lot of people when you talk to them, and they'll think they know what you're doing.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: They'll go. Okay, I see what you're saying. Here, let me tell you why I did.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and so they'll start to like volunteer like, oh, II know what I was doing. I know what my job was, and like they'll they'll tell you
Neal Sáles-Griffin: they're usually wrong.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so don't don't worry so much about someone who's overconfident when they're talking to you about explaining their why? Because once you break down some of the pieces, there will be a level of understanding that they like that, you'll get from them. And sometimes they get impressed. And they're like, Wow, I've never been asked that question before, or I didn't even realize that was what was going on, because.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'll give you an example. I had someone recently who was very skeptical.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: who I was doing a live interview with. I was talking about how we help our founders succeed. We're at a diner having breakfast. And he's like, Yeah, yeah, I get it like, it's whatever. And then we start talking to him about something he purchased recently. It was a printer.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and he kind of went into explaining what he got it for and why. And I kind of got stuck
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like I was like, Okay, I'm not sure what to ask now. But then the other person who was sitting with us happened to be his wife.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and she goes.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It was your birthday around that time. Don't you remember that? Oh, right! Oh! And then, all of a sudden the the conversation shifted, and there were so many more details that emerged from that insight that I didn't even think to ask and realize, so just know that there could be one little tiny wedge of a question or detail, that if you get right.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: opens the floodgates to a deeper truth about what was really going on in someone's behavior.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Cool?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Lies. Everybody lies, whether they mean it or not.
Neal Sáles-Griffin:  someone could say, I bought this because it's important to be healthy.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but
Neal Sáles-Griffin: it's not lying with malice or and or or bad intent. It's just a story that fits, you know, their situation or narrative at the time. So lies are a very complicated thing. We often see as a negative thing, but get past the lie
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because it's not malicious, but it's probably more disconnected from a deeper truth of what actually might be underlying their situation.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So for the interview process, Antonio, this is where we get to what you asked. have more than one person on the call.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So one person's fully engaged, the other person's taking notes and identifying what's missing. So this is what's really really cool of working with someone else on the interview. Because if you're not on a video
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and you and they're filling in the timeline while you're driving the interview they might go. Hey, we're still missing what the first thought was, can you go back in the timeline and figure out what that was? You go on mute, and you clarify, hey? Ask this next, or we're missing this.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I think that's really important. That being said, there were some tools shared in the chat that are important because you should record and transcribe the calls if you can.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the way to handle this at the beginning of the call is basically to respectfully ask, like, we're not gonna use it for any other purposes other than you know. Our research offer them assurances that it will be kept confidential.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: 90% of the time, if not 95% of the time. No issues there.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But if for some reason they are hesitant feel free to just take copious notes.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Bone is greater than video, like I've already explained, better engagement, more honest reactions doesn't distract you with worrying about how you look, how you perceive things like that really helpful.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Take real time notes in the interview itself. My favorite thing is to map out the timeline as you go.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That is the game that I play when I'm doing jobs to be done. Interviews
Neal Sáles-Griffin: also just as important as all of this. The interview lasts 20 to 30 min. Typically, if you're doing it right
Neal Sáles-Griffin: sometimes they can go longer like the mattress, interview
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the debrief.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: always bake in about 15 min after your interview to do an immediate debrief.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: The reason an immediate debrief is important is that that conversation that you just had is completely fresh in your mind.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It is the best time to unpack what you just heard.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What did we just hear? What was the timeline? Do we have it right? Do we need to follow up and ask a few more clarifying questions. Do we map out the jobs to be done? Statement how we are? Then when you map out the forces right? What were the pushes? What were the pulls? What were the habits? What were the exact? Exactly what you did with Liliana just now.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and there's another acronym you you see here, Mala MALA.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: More about less about.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So we'll offer up that framework as a tool as well. But
Neal Sáles-Griffin: their story was more about these things and less about these things. So it's a contrast and factors that influence the forces of progress.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Once you complete your first interview. Oh, this is the framework actually to go about completing your first interview. So you introduce yourself.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: have a little bit of a script here about how to frame it, because we teach you all to ask kind of weird questions. Most people when they do interviews aren't used to getting asked the kinds of things that you would ask in their jobs to be done. Interview.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So make sure that they know it's no right or wrong. Answers. Make sure that you set the context about the detailed questions you ask, like I'm asking about what time of day was it? What was the weather like? Who are you with? What did you eat for breakfast? It's weird stuff
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that folks are used to like, not used to recalling all the time, but by having them recall some of these indirect details.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It reminds them of what was going on. It brings them into that space and time, and it unlocks more memories.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: These are the interrogation techniques that you know you learn.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know, in government and whatnot. and also preparing for interruption. So to make sure, we're making the most of your time.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There are times when I might interrupt you for clarifications, and I apologize in advance.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so just be really respectful about it, but sometimes they'll go off on a tangent. They'll talk for too long, or they'll be, you know, misdirected from what's important that you're trying to learn, and you have 20 min or 30 min, so keep them on task and on mission, and move on from things that are becoming irrelevant.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And then, as you do, the interview focus on energy.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So start like the J. Lo! Already asked moment of purchase and working backwards from there
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and then drilling deeper into moments that are high energy. So once someone demonstrates a high level of pain, either you see or hear an emotional reaction where they emphasize words, or they have, like strong language, or just like a visceral reaction to something, or it's very emotional.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Dig into wherever the energy is, unpack it more slow down time zoom in and make sure you're unpacking. That scene in that situation
Neal Sáles-Griffin: context creates meaning. Contrast creates value boards to live by. So a few other contrasting examples that we took as excerpts from the book. So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: why do it virtually versus? Why do it virtually? Why not just get into your car and drive to the doctor. So when you offer up the why not?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That gives them something to react to.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But if you ask a more open-ended version of the question, they might struggle to actually give you a clear answer.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So more context.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: it installed fast versus it installed fast. In just under 2 min. The last program took 5 min to install context. more visceral detail. That's what we're looking for. Don't accept fast. What do you mean by fast? What is fast to you? Is it 1 min, 5 min, 30 min.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Everyone defines fast, differently. So make sure that you understand what that means, because when you do the post analysis of the interview, the debrief.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: When you have conversations with your team about what you heard.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: statements like, what's on the right here become a debate.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and then you end up having to go back and call them anyway, to clarify what they meant.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Few more examples. So I bought this new laptop and it's really good.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay, cool. That's fine, high energy.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I bought this new laptop, and it's really good. Or
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I bought this laptop, and it's good like the the emotion that you hear when someone's saying certain things versus other things that those are hints to do to like dig deeper?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: A few more.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Why were you at the doctor versus
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that, asking a more sensitive way. I've got a personal question. If you don't want to answer, you don't have to. But why were you at the doctor.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So you notice in the matching. Bob's really good at getting you to give him more information about what you're dealing with, even though it becomes very personal.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: He's almost too good.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'll give you a quick example. So I was in Detroit doing a jobs to be done workshop with Bob years ago, and we were interviewing someone who had purchased
Neal Sáles-Griffin: storage
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like home storage
Neal Sáles-Griffin: units from Creighton Barrel. and I'll spare the details.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But I'll tell you a story some other time. If you're curious. Long story short, what we learned from this this interview
Neal Sáles-Griffin: is that the person we were talking to was having a lot of marital issues.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: The home storage was about
Neal Sáles-Griffin: having their kids near them
Neal Sáles-Griffin: in like by the kitchen.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because they wanted to be closer to their kids and their partner wanted the storage to be in the basement
Neal Sáles-Griffin: cause the kids they wanted the kids to be away from them after a long day of work.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So we're sitting there having this conversation doing this interview. And it's becoming more and more obvious that there's a deeper problem at play. And it was like, okay.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: at some point, you gotta call it if you go too deep in someone's situation and it becomes beyond your pay grade and a little too personal, you gotta know. Like all right, like with great power, comes great responsibility.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I think in the encore yesterday, after our session ended, a few people stuck around. And I made this point because they asked about using jobs in other contexts, can you use jobs to be done to understand investors
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and the making investment decisions in you? The answer is, yes.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: jobs is life, in my opinion. So for those of you in your lives there's probably situations with your friends, with your spouse, with other people that are important to you, where you can apply the same framework, not just in a business context. I would just urge caution.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because if you go too deep.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: people get weirded out with what you ask and what you understand about what's going on. So have fun with it. But at the same time be careful.
Neal Sáles-Griffin:  all right. I'm going to jump through a few other tips.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Be really, really careful about using hypotheticals and generalizations. Lot of people go. Would you pay this, or what would you have done in this situation when you ask people what they would have done.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's not getting at the point of this exercise, and what we're trying to teach you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: those hypotheticals I personally just struggle in my life with hypotheticals in general like I.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I don't have a really good time imagining what I would do as opposed to evaluating what has been done.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: or under other indicators of that behavior.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Also, sometimes you have an effusive customer that makes you feel really good, and it's an ego trip
Neal Sáles-Griffin: when they're praising you or your product. You can respond with kindness, but don't get distracted from what matters. Which is you getting back to understanding their journey and their story?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But it does feel good every now and then when you get that validation
Neal Sáles-Griffin: also, try not to make assumptions. So if you catch yourself thinking that makes perfect sense.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: ask more questions don't settle with. I know what you're trying to say. Let's move on.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Make sure you understand their words. So another way to do this we refer to as playing dumb.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So even if you know what they mean by something, ask them to explain it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because they might explain it in a way differently than what you have as an understanding in your head.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Also, you'll notice sometimes people will very quickly agree
Neal Sáles-Griffin: with like very like concise or short responses.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Make sure you have the story right, and reflect it back to them and get something wrong. So like, try to offer up an incorrect detail about what you heard.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and then they can correct you, and then they'll dig in more. So there's there's really like this is like really crafty stuff like the dark arts that I've learned from from Bob and others and interview techniques.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Also stay away from like again, the ego trip. The product related questions mostly y'all have done interviews where you ask for user feedback.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: where you're trying to go. What do you think of this feature, or how's this going? Or that's not what this is.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There is a context where that's relevant. But we're just telling you that for jobs to be done, framework standpoint. That is not what we're teaching you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So do user interviews as you see fit to give feedback on features and products and how they work in Qa stuff. But just know that that ain't what this is.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: As you do more, you start to identify clusters and patterns across the interviews. Don't just keep them in your head with your intuition. Write them down, document, and we've already taught you how to do a lot of that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And then, once you refine those clusters, and you turn them into a few jobs to be done, statements which we've offered up the formula for. That's when you can start to actually work through and get closer to what we call a source of truth for the company.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Christy.
Christy Serrato | PairAnything: This is a different spin to this. But will we learn how to interview customers that have abandoned that product or left that product? Fire interviews? Yes.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yup, hiring and firing right? So you hire a job to hire people to do jobs. And then you fire people who don't do the job or they're not doing the job well enough, or the job is done, and you don't need them
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So that is an equally valid and important thing to analyze around. So I want to talk to people who've recently, you know.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: sold something like, sold their car or sold their home, or you know, what are you saying? No to. And why are you getting rid of this
Neal Sáles-Griffin: as a solution.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and especially you when you have churn. You know any users on your platform or customers on your platform.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's harder to get them to do that, but you can pay them
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to talk to you if there's a struggling moment beyond that, Matthew.
Matthieu Bonnard: Yes, you, said Neil. So in the B, 2 B context, like businesses, don't buy products. But people do. And my question is, how do you balance the questions that are geared towards the individual as a user or decision maker versus questions
Matthieu Bonnard: geared towards whether cooperation or the organization
Matthieu Bonnard: wants to do in the context of the you say, the corporation organization is just a, it's a composition of people.
Matthieu Bonnard: Yeah. But I'm I'm thinking that you know you still, especially for more mature for mature organization. You have policies. You have.
Matthieu Bonnard: you know, budgets, you have more less emotional
Matthieu Bonnard: a
Matthieu Bonnard: components. Maybe you know, in a decision making
Matthieu Bonnard: process and thinking that the interview should at least have some questions towards understanding how the organization behaves
Matthieu Bonnard: in addition, or as opposed to how the individual we talk to would behave. Behavior of the organization is the behavior of the collection of individuals in the organization.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So actually, Matthew, it goes right back to understanding the person that you're talking to
Neal Sáles-Griffin: at the end of the day. Truly. and that is the point of that that statement
Neal Sáles-Griffin: which is like, if you try to think of it as like some sort of
Neal Sáles-Griffin: non-human entity.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You might be selling yourself short from understanding what's really going on at the decision-making level across each of the humans who are involved in a decision-making process.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I'm actually trying to teach you to not think that way, at least for the purposes of gathering the information that we can help you work with here.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That isn't to say, to throw out the needs of the organization at large or the systems in place. The cultural expectations, the parameters that each individual is facing within their respective department.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but
Neal Sáles-Griffin: understand the individual's impetus because it may be completely disconnected from whatever might be said online, or for wherever the policy is, there's what the policy is and what the expectation
Neal Sáles-Griffin: are. And then there's what the human wants to actually do and what's driving them to do that job.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Those could be very different things. So when someone's speaking on behalf of the company, that's a totally different ball game than what we want to know, which is them speaking on behalf of themselves and their role at the company, and what they're trying to make progress on for them.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm really grateful that you asked that question because it offers me a way to like really elaborate on the B 2 B front that it's still a human interest story that you're getting into.
Matthieu Bonnard: Yeah, thank you for explaining that. Yeah, thanks.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright. I'm gonna blaze through a few things here. as a company. The problems you're solving for the customer aren't going to change that much.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But once you understand that it becomes a part of your core DNA.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So now, your job is to iterate to solve the problem better as you go. That's how you grow into a scaling organization.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So as you bring on team members. They're not going to understand, Jtvd.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but we're gonna teach you all an exercise so that anybody you bring on post tech stars will understand your jobs, and you'll have something to explain that. So they're all on the same page with you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin:  And then that understanding becomes ingrained in your company culture which can be a very, very powerful tool to have everyone mission aligned.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So when it comes to solving for the job.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you're gonna evaluate.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know, existing products, assumptions and features. You're gonna do opportunity mapping. So based on the insights you gather, you understand what the high level opportunities are. There may be a really really frothy or salient anxiety that you identify, and the forces diagram, that
Neal Sáles-Griffin: is unaddressed in the product, or a push that was never considered that ends up coming to fruition, and you all decide to make your strategy about addressing that specific thing. And then another really helpful tool is what we call an opportunity solution tree, where you kind of reverse engineer from the desired outcome towards what the inputs would be on the solution front to actually reach that desired outcome. By your consumer.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And then one of the things that you need to be caution about is.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you'll think of an idea, and then you fall in love with that idea, and it becomes an anchor in your head that you become committed to when there's so many other ways to solve the problem as well.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So one job here is to get committed to the problem
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and less committed to the solution.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because once people become so dependent on their way of solving the problem, you become blindsided to all the other alternatives that could exist to help your users actually be successful.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Kevin.
Kevin: Yeah, I just wanted to know at at what point like, if you're going through this process, it's such an in depth level. and you find something that you address that wasn't addressed in your product before, and then you need to make that pivot and make that shift.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: How do you sort of have the balance where you're not driving yourself crazy by continuously making pivots and then having to put breaks on sales because you're trying to up your game with your product. Better because you're addressing those needs. Yeah, you need to set parameters around your sprints
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so you shouldn't drink from the fire hose and take on everything. Which is why we teach jobs in the context of a very particular learning question and prompt.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So within like, let's just say a 6 week cycle. You're making bets about what you thinking can get done right? So you do the jobs to be done, work. You have the insights. You take a week, and you. You have a conversation or a debate about what makes sense.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Then you make a strategic bet about if we make this product change, or if we go with this sales initiative. Here's what we think will happen, but it's within enough of a timeframe that even if you're wrong.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you can try another experiment next if it doesn't work. But you need to set parameters around that and not take on too much and boil the ocean, as they say.
Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: all right. I'm gonna jump through some of the texts. We'll share this later.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but one great example and exercise for y'all to do to kind of bring this to a close, and be careful. I might do this tomorrow when we wrap this up, so you better watch out. But what I love to do is, I have people pull up
Neal Sáles-Griffin: their landing pages
Neal Sáles-Griffin: on their of their website, your homepage. So if I go to the homepage of your website, are you bragging about. How awesome you are. Are you talking about
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the desired outcome and the needs and the benefits to the individual that you're trying to sell to
Neal Sáles-Griffin: alright. So I'm giving you that test because some of you might need to change your landing pages in the next day because we're gonna pull them up. And we're gonna look at it. And we're gonna talk about that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Also your one liner. This will help you with that. It'll help you like very concisely talk about what you're doing going forward. So it influences like what you write about your business, how you talk, the language and voice of your business becomes less of your assumptions about what is important, and more about what you heard in those interviews. So the language shifts as well. That's what you get blessed with when you do these interviews properly, and then the channels that you reach people through become more salient.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and they reveal themselves differently. Now that you talk to people who found progress in a variety of ways, you know where to get them. Now, when you do that work, to figure out who to interview in the first place.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So then, it becomes a list of action items that create progress for your company and your customer.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Tomorrow we'll talk more about job stories. I have 2 very specific stories and examples to show you of how jobs to be done made an impact on a few products and businesses, and then we'll do some live interviews to demonstrate the technique and some of the tactics. And we'll do some debriefing together. So that's what you expect tomorrow.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Liliana, tell me if I did my job here properly.
Lilliana Robinson: Oh, yeah, I think we got there exactly what we wanted to. We'll stay on to answer questions, Calvin, but we can go ahead and dismiss everybody, cause we love to end on time. So Neil and I'll stay back. But we can't wait to keep going tomorrow, and you'll see a live interview which will kind of make everything click. So thanks everybody for your participation. This is awesome.